154 - SIMPLIFIED COMPLETE AUTHOR ASSISTANT IMPLEMENTED
Date: 10 August 2026

1. OUTCOME

The Author Assistant now has one primary guided command instead of a chain of numbered preparation commands.

Run:
npm run author-assistant:secure

2. WHAT ONE RUN DOES

1. Asks for the AWS service, short name, learner level, outcome and Region.
2. Searches only official docs.aws.amazon.com pages.
3. Creates the phases and tasks in the established Follow Along layout.
4. Creates short, separately editable Console checkboxes.
5. Creates separate AWS CLI commands with explanations and expected results.
6. Creates verification checks, manual cleanup and AWS source links.
7. Runs the existing Author planning, content and review checks.
8. Displays and saves one complete preview.
9. Asks once whether the complete preview should be accepted for controlled Author import.

3. SAVED FILES

Each run creates its own folder under:
C:\Users\shaun\AppData\Local\StudyTracker\AuthorAssistant\

The files needed by the Author import panel are:
author-local-handoff-package.json
author-local-handoff-acceptance-90a.json

The easy-to-read copy is:
complete-follow-along-preview.txt

4. SAFETY BOUNDARY

The command does not connect to AWS, Supabase or the Author page.
It does not execute AWS CLI commands.
It does not create a candidate, approve content or publish content.
Importing and publishing remain separate deliberate actions in the app.

5. OLD WORKFLOW

The earlier multi-command pilot remains available only as:
npm run author-assistant:legacy:secure

It is no longer the normal command.

6. CONSOLE AND CLI DISPLAY CORRECTION

Programme cards and task mode buttons now reflect the content that actually exists.
A Console-only publication no longer claims that CLI instructions exist.
A newly generated complete programme displays Console, CLI and Show Both because both paths are populated.

7. VERIFICATION

Focused simplified-workflow tests: passed.
Full project test suite: 748 tests passed, 0 failed.
Production build: passed.
Linter: passed with existing warnings only and no errors.

8. PUBLISHED SQS SAFETY

Published SQS revision 2 was not edited, replaced or republished.
No database migration was created or deployed.

9. FIRST SNS RETRY CORRECTION

The first SNS run cited an official protected AWS page inside a learner step but omitted that same page from the summary source list.
The assistant now adds such a cited protected page to the summary automatically.
It still rejects pages that were not returned by the protected AWS Docs search.
