STEP 173 - RDS GOLD STANDARD AND BEGINNER AI REVIEW

1. PURPOSE

The Author Assistant now uses the controlled published RDS Follow Along as its
minimum beginner-writing standard.

The reference controls writing depth and clarity only. It must not copy RDS,
EC2, ALB, IAM, networking, resource names, permissions or architecture into an
unrelated AWS service.


2. WHICH RDS CONTENT IS USED

The script reads programme ID:

rds-learning-path

from the existing read-only controlled published Follow Along list.

It records the exact published revision and content fingerprint, then uses the
complete instructional standard from every published RDS task:

1. Every Console step and checkbox.
2. Every JSON or structured text block.
3. Every CLI command, explanation, warning and expected result.
4. Every verification check.
5. Every task cleanup action and final programme cleanup action.

The entire Console and CLI learning journey is now supplied to generation and
quality review. It is no longer reduced to four selected Console examples.

Important: unsaved or unpublished RDS Shared Draft edits are not available to
the command-line script. Publish the perfected RDS revision before expecting a
future run to use those exact improvements as its reference.


3. BEGINNER RULES ADDED

The AI must now:

1. Assume the learner has no existing infrastructure.
2. Create each required resource before referring to it later.
3. Explain how to reach the AWS service from the AWS Console.
4. Name the exact visible menu, button, tab, field and training value.
5. Keep each learner checkbox as one short action.
6. Explain exactly where a recorded value or placeholder comes from.
7. Supply referenced JSON in a separate structured JSON block.
8. Keep complete Console and CLI routes separate.
9. Include expected results, visible verification and safe cleanup.
10. Use only protected official AWS documentation for AWS facts.
11. Keep CLI routes independently usable instead of referring learners back to
    hidden Console-only JSON, policy or user-data content.


4. SECOND AI QUALITY REVIEW

After the first complete Follow Along is generated, a separate AI request
reviews every task as if the learner has never used the service.

Tasks that already meet the standard remain unchanged.

Only tasks found to be weak may be returned as complete corrected replacement
tasks. The reviewer cannot replace a task after marking it as passed.

This avoids paying for a second complete copy of an otherwise good Follow
Along. A protected-source correction request can still occur when the first AI
response cites a source incorrectly.


5. FINAL LOCAL QUALITY GATE

The package is not saved if the reviewed content still contains known beginner
problems, including:

1. No explanation of how to reach the relevant Console area.
2. Bare instructions such as Open Subnets or Open Users.
3. Choose a suitable or existing resource without creating or identifying it.
4. Configure as needed or enter the required values.
5. Record a value without saying where it is displayed.
6. Refer to JSON without supplying a JSON block.


6. SAFETY BOUNDARIES

1. The RDS catalogue access is read-only.
2. The OpenAI API key remains memory-only for the current run.
3. No AWS command is executed.
4. Nothing is written to AWS.
5. Nothing is written to Supabase.
6. Nothing is written to Author automatically.
7. No draft, candidate, approval or publication is created.
8. The existing controlled import and publishing process remains required.


7. RUNNING THE SCRIPT

From:

E:\code\study-tracker

run:

npm run author-assistant:secure

The terminal will display the exact RDS published revision used as the quality
reference. It will also report when initial generation finishes, when the
separate beginner review starts, and when the final local checks finish.


8. VERIFICATION COMPLETED

1. Focused Author Assistant tests: passed.
2. Complete application test suite: 697 tests passed.
3. Linter: completed with no new errors; existing unrelated warnings remain.
4. Production build: completed successfully.
5. No live OpenAI generation was purchased or performed during implementation.
6. No Author, Supabase or AWS data was changed.


9. FILES IMPLEMENTED

E:\code\study-tracker\scripts\author-assistant\authorAssistantBeginnerQuality.mjs

E:\code\study-tracker\scripts\author-assistant\authorAssistantSimple.mjs

E:\code\study-tracker\scripts\author-assistant\runSimpleAuthorAssistant.mjs

E:\code\study-tracker\tests\authorAssistantSimple.test.js

E:\code\study-tracker\docs\author-assistant\173_RDS_GOLD_STANDARD_BEGINNER_AI_REVIEW.txt
