210. REUSABLE OFFLINE FOLLOW ALONG IMPORT

1. Purpose

The local command converts the two deliverables created from the Study Tracker Offline Follow Along Authoring Standard into the existing controlled Author handoff format.

2. Command

npm run author-assistant:import-offline -- "C:\full\path\offline-follow-along-manuscript.json"

The matching offline-follow-along-preview.md must be in the same folder.

For automated local verification only, --no-accept skips the acceptance question and --accept records the exact displayed fingerprint. Normal learner use should omit both flags and answer the visible question.

3. What the command does

1. Reads the downloaded UTF-8 JSON manuscript.
2. Confirms the readable Markdown preview exists.
3. Validates programme, phases, task links, prerequisites, official sources, both learner routes, editable blocks, verification, resources, cleanup and safety boundaries.
4. Rejects credential-like content and broad destructive filesystem commands.
5. Converts the portable records without using AI.
6. Runs the current Author planning, content and review checks.
7. Creates a deterministic local session and genuine Step 90 handoff fingerprint.
8. Shows the fingerprint and asks for exact human acceptance.
9. Creates the Step 90A audit only after the user answers yes.

4. Saved files

The command prints the exact folder. By default it is under:

E:\code\study-tracker\docs\author-assistant\handoffs\author-assistant-offline-<service>-<manuscript fingerprint prefix>

The folder contains:

- author-local-handoff-package.json
- author-local-handoff-acceptance-90a.json after acceptance
- complete-follow-along-preview.txt
- session.json
- the unchanged offline-follow-along-manuscript.json
- the unchanged offline-follow-along-preview.md

5. Safety boundary

The command does not use an OpenAI API key, make an AI request, connect to Author, Supabase or AWS, bind an identity, import a draft, create a release candidate, approve or publish. The final package and audit must still be selected manually on the signed-in local Author page.

6. Duplicate protection

The session folder is derived from the manuscript fingerprint. Rerunning the exact manuscript preserves and reuses the existing package. A duplicate handoff is not created.
