83. AUTHOR ASSISTANT - STEP 82 HTTP 429 DIAGNOSIS AND RETRY PREPARATION

Date: 9 August 2026

1. PILOT RESULT

The secure launcher accepted the API key locally and started correctly.

The SQS session was created successfully:

author-assistant-sqs-7861d0c2-8a53-46e5-b028-82160872758c

OpenAI rejected the first research request with HTTP 429 before any research result was created.

2. SAVED SESSION SAFETY CHECK

The pilot session contains only:

session.json
research-request.json

The session status remains:

input_complete

No research-result.json exists.
No accepted-sources.json exists.

The saved safety flags confirm:

AI result saved: No
AWS connected: No
Supabase connected: No
Candidate prepared: No
Published: No

3. WHAT HTTP 429 CAN MEAN

Official OpenAI documentation lists these main HTTP 429 causes:

1. API credit balance exhausted.
2. Request rate limit reached.
3. Organization spend limit reached.
4. Project spend limit reached.
5. Organization usage limit reached.

Official guidance:

https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/error-codes

4. IMPORTANT LIMITATION OF THE FIRST ATTEMPT

The first script version displayed only HTTP 429.

It did not preserve the safe OpenAI error code, so this first attempt cannot prove which 429 cause applied.

No blind automatic retry was performed.

5. DIAGNOSTIC IMPROVEMENT

The script now reads only the safe error code and gives matching guidance.

Examples:

credit_balance_exhausted
project_spend_limit_exceeded
organization_spend_limit_exceeded
organization_usage_limit_exceeded
insufficient_quota
rate_limit_exceeded

The raw provider message is not copied into saved session data.

6. LAUNCHER IMPROVEMENT

A failed request now ends with a short safe message.

The long red PowerShell stack trace has been removed.

The key remains:

1. Hidden during entry.
2. Outside the browser.
3. Outside the repository.
4. Outside session files.
5. Cleared from the temporary launcher process.

7. VERIFICATION AFTER THE FIX

Focused diagnostic checks: 18 passed, 0 failed.
Complete application test suite: 542 passed, 0 failed.
Linter: 0 errors. Existing unrelated warnings remain.
Production build: passed.
Git whitespace check: passed. Line-ending notices are informational.

8. WHAT TO CHECK BEFORE RETRYING

Start with the OpenAI API account because this was the first research request:

1. Confirm the API account has available credits or billing.
2. Confirm the selected project has a usable spend limit.
3. Confirm the organization has a usable spend limit.
4. If credits and limits are available, retry once and read the new exact error code.

9. CONTROLLED RETRY

Run:

npm run author-assistant:secure

Then:

1. Enter the key privately again.
2. Choose Yes to resume the saved SQS session.
3. Choose Yes to start read-only research.
4. If research succeeds, review each official AWS source.
5. If it fails, record only the displayed error code and never share the key.

The script will not repeat the five SQS setup questions when the saved session is resumed.

10. STEP 82 STATUS

Secure key entry: Complete.
Protected live request attempted: Complete.
Live AWS Docs research result: Blocked by HTTP 429.
Human source acceptance: Not started.
Author draft changes: None.

Step 82 remains incomplete until one live protected research result is accepted.
