84. AUTHOR ASSISTANT - STEP 82A PROTECTED AWS SOURCE SELECTION CORRECTION

Date: 9 August 2026

1. REASON FOR THIS STEP

The OpenAI request and protected AWS Docs search completed.

The first AI answer rewrote or proposed at least one AWS documentation URL that was
not an exact member of the protected web search source list.

The existing safety check correctly stopped the run instead of accepting that URL.

2. OFFICIAL API BEHAVIOUR USED

Official OpenAI documentation states that:

1. allowed_domains restricts web search to approved domains.
2. web_search_call.action.sources returns the complete list of URLs consulted.

Reference:

https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/tools-web-search#sources

3. CORRECTION IMPLEMENTED

The initial search remains restricted to:

docs.aws.amazon.com

The initial prompt now tells the model to copy returned URLs exactly.

If the first answer still proposes a different AWS URL, the script performs one
bounded correction request.

The correction request receives only the official AWS URLs already returned by the
protected search.

Its strict response schema permits only those exact URLs.

4. SAFETY RULES PRESERVED

1. No outside-domain URL can be accepted.
2. An AWS-looking URL that was not returned by protected search is still rejected.
3. Only one correction attempt is allowed.
4. The correction request has no web search tool and cannot expand the source list.
5. The API key remains only in the private Authorization header.
6. The API key is not written into either request body or saved files.
7. Human acceptance of every proposed source remains required.
8. No Author draft stage is prepared.
9. No AWS connection is made.
10. No Supabase connection is made.
11. No candidate is prepared.
12. Nothing is approved or published.

5. AUDIT INFORMATION

Saved research results now record whether protected source correction was applied.

When applied, the correction response identifier is also recorded for audit purposes.

6. VERIFICATION

Focused Author Assistant checks after the final correction:

13 passed, 0 failed.

Complete application checks:

545 passed, 0 failed.

Linter:

0 errors. Existing unrelated warnings remain.

Production build:

Passed. Existing Node version and bundle-size warnings remain.

Git whitespace check:

Passed. Existing line-ending notices are informational.

7. SAVED SQS SESSION

The existing SQS session remains unchanged at input_complete.

It still contains only:

session.json
research-request.json

No failed or partial research result was saved.

8. CONTROLLED LIVE RETRY

Run:

npm run author-assistant:secure

Then:

1. Enter the API key privately.
2. Answer Y to resume the saved SQS session.
3. Answer y to start read-only AWS Docs research.
4. Review each returned official AWS source.
5. Accept or reject each source explicitly.

If exact sources were returned initially, one API request is used.

If safe correction is needed, one small additional API request is used.

9. STATUS

Step 82A implementation and local verification: Complete.

Step 82 live SQS research and human source acceptance: Not yet complete.

No later Author Assistant stage has started.
