87. AUTHOR ASSISTANT - STEP 83 REUSABLE STAGES 1 TO 5 BLUEPRINT IMPLEMENTATION

Date: 9 August 2026

1. RESULT

Step 83 is implemented as a reusable service-independent Author Assistant stage.

It is not an SQS generator.

SQS remains the first accepted live session that can use the new stage.

2. PURPOSE

After official AWS sources are accepted, the Author Assistant can now prepare a local
human-reviewable blueprint for:

1. Author Stage 1 - Programme.
2. Author Stage 2 - Phases.
3. Author Stage 3 - Tasks.
4. Author Stage 4 - Planning Check.
5. Author Stage 5 - Accepted AWS Sources and task links.

3. REUSABLE SERVICE FLOW

The implementation reads service information from the active saved session:

1. Official AWS service name.
2. Short service name.
3. Learner level.
4. Requested learner outcome.
5. Preferred AWS Region.
6. Human-accepted AWS documentation sources.

No AWS service name, SQS action or SQS URL is hardcoded in production logic.

A separate SNS test service proves the same code works without SQS-specific content.

4. AI BOUNDARY

The blueprint uses one structured OpenAI Responses API request.

The request:

1. Uses GPT-5.6 Terra by default.
2. Keeps store set to false.
3. Has no web search tool.
4. Receives only the already accepted source records.
5. Allows only exact accepted source URLs in task source links.
6. Does not request detailed commands, instructions, cleanup or publishing content.

Official structured-output reference:

https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/structured-outputs

5. LOCAL VALIDATION

Before a blueprint can be saved, the script checks:

1. Source acceptance belongs to the same session.
2. Every source is an approved docs.aws.amazon.com URL.
3. Phase numbers are sequential.
4. Every phase has at least one task.
5. Task numbers are sequential.
6. Tasks follow the phase order.
7. Prerequisites refer only to earlier tasks.
8. Task source links are unique and accepted.
9. Every accepted source supports at least one task.
10. Durations and difficulty values are valid.
11. The complete result passes the app's existing Author planning validator.

6. STABLE IDS

The AI does not control app IDs.

Stable phase, task and source IDs are created locally with the existing Author
planning and content functions.

This prevents duplicate or invented IDs from entering the blueprint.

7. LOCAL OUTPUTS

After a successful live run, the service session will receive:

author-stages-1-5-blueprint.json
author-stages-1-5-blueprint.txt

The JSON file is the detailed local blueprint.

The TXT file is a short human-readable phase and task preview.

These are not automatically imported into Author.

8. RESUME BEHAVIOUR

If the blueprint already exists, the script displays its paths and does not repeat
the API request.

If sources are accepted but the blueprint does not exist, the script asks:

Prepare a local Author Stages 1-5 blueprint now? (y/N)

No request is made unless the user answers yes.

9. SAFETY BOUNDARY

Step 83 does not:

1. Write to the Author page.
2. Create a private or shared Author draft.
3. Connect to Supabase.
4. Connect to AWS.
5. Use AWS credentials.
6. Run AWS commands.
7. Prepare Stage 6 instructions.
8. Prepare resources or cleanup.
9. Prepare a release candidate.
10. Approve or publish anything.

10. VERIFICATION

Focused final Step 83 checks:

13 passed, 0 failed.

Complete application checks:

560 passed, 0 failed.

Linter:

0 errors. Existing unrelated warnings remain.

Production build:

Passed. Existing Node version and bundle-size warnings remain.

Git whitespace check:

Passed. Existing line-ending notices are informational.

11. CONTROLLED LIVE SQS TEST

Run:

npm run author-assistant:secure

Then:

1. Enter the API key privately.
2. Answer Y to resume the accepted SQS session.
3. The script will confirm the accepted sources already exist.
4. Answer y to prepare the local Stages 1-5 blueprint.
5. Read the short terminal preview.
6. Review the saved JSON and TXT files before approving any later step.

One API request is expected for this blueprint.

The AWS documentation research will not be repeated.

12. STATUS

Reusable Step 83 implementation: Complete.
Generic non-SQS verification: Complete.
Live SQS blueprint generation: Awaiting the user's private-key run.
Author write: Not started.
Stage 6: Not started.
